doc/features/decision-guidance.md, before:

# Recommendation of Solution Options from External Knowledge Sources (Decision Guidance)

The ConDec Jira plug-in offers a feature that recommends solution options for decision problems from **external knowledge sources**.
External knowledge sources can be **DBPedia** or **other Jira projects**.

The Figure below shows the **decision guidance view** with three recommendations generated from DBPedia 
for the decision problem *Which framework should we use as a webcrawler?*
The developers can **accept or discard** the recommendations.
If they accept a recommendation, the respective solution option and arguments are added to the knowledge graph.

![Decision guidance view with three recommendations generated from DBPedia](../screenshots/decision_guidance_webcrawler.png)

*Decision guidance view with three recommendations generated from DBPedia*

## Nudging

The colored menu item indicates whether action is needed.
TODO JIP and ambient feedback

## Recommendation Score

The **recommendation score** represents the predicted relevance of a recommendation, i.e., how likely the developers accept the recommendation.
The recommendation score is used to rank the recommendations.
The recommendation score consists of a value and an explanation. 
Besides, the recommendation score can be composed of various sub-scores for the criteria that were used to calculate the score.

![Explanation of the score for a recommendation generated from DBPedia](../screenshots/decision_guidance_recommendation_score.png)

*Explanation of the score for a recommendation generated from DBPedia*

## Evaluation

Software engineering researchers can assess the quality of the recommendations in the evaluation view.
The solution options documented for a selected decision problem are assumed to be the **ground truth/gold standard**.
The following evaluation metrics are calculated:

- **Number of True Positives:** Counts the number of true positives under the top-k results, 
i.e. the number of recommendations from a knowledge source that were already documented in the knowledge graph.
- **Precision@k:** Measures the precision (positive predictive value) within the top-k results, 
i.e. the fraction of relevant recommendations (that match the solution options in the ground truth) among the retrieved recommendations.
- **Recall@k:** Measures the recall (true positive rate/sensitivity) within the top-k results, 
i.e. the fraction of the solution options in the ground truth that are successfully recommended.
- **F-Score:** Measures the harmonic mean of Precision and Recall.
- **Average Precision:** Measures the average precision (AP) within the top-k results. 
Takes the total number of ground truth positives into account, i.e. the number of the solution options already documented.
- **Reciprokal Rank:** Measures the position of the first correct recommendation. 
For example: If the first recommendation is relevant, the reciprocal rank is 1. 
If the first recommendation is irrelevant and the second recommendation is relevant, the reciprocal rank is 0.5.

![Decision guidance evaluation view](../screenshots/decision_guidance_evaluation.png)

*Decision guidance evaluation view*

The evaluation view shows the total amount of recommendations generated from the knowledge source.
The recommendations for the decision problem *Which framework should we use as a webcrawler?* are:
*Heritrix, Apache Nutch, Frontera (web crawling), SortSite, PowerMapper, HTTrack, Scrapy, Googlebot*.
Only the top-k recommendations (k=5 in the Figure) are used for the evaluation.

## Activation and Configuration
The decision guidance feature offers various configuration possibilities.

TODO config screenshot

## Design Details
The following class diagram gives an overview of relevant backend classes for this feature.

![Overview class diagram](../diagrams/class_diagram_decision_guidance.png)

*Overview class diagram for the decision guidance feature*

You find the explanation for the class diagramm in the Javadoc in the code:
[Java code for decision guidance](../../src/main/java/de/uhd/ifi/se/decision/management/jira/recommendation/decisionguidance)

The UI code for decision guidance can be found here:

- [Velocity templates for configuration and evaluation](../../src/main/resources/templates/settings/decisionguidance)
- [Velocity templates for usage during development](../../src/main/resources/templates/tabs/recommendation)
- [JavaScript code for decision guidance](../../src/main/resources/js/recommendation)

Commit message:

Document nudging mechanisms for decision guidance

doc/features/decision-guidance.md, after:

# Recommendation of Solution Options from External Knowledge Sources (Decision Guidance)

The ConDec Jira plug-in offers a feature that recommends solution options for decision problems from **external knowledge sources**.
Knowledge sources can be **other Jira projects** (ProjectSources) or RDFSources such as **DBPedia**. 
RDFSources are knowledge sources identified using the [Resource Description Framework (RDF)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Resource_Description_Framework) format.

The Figure below shows the **decision guidance view** with three recommendations generated from DBPedia 
for the decision problem *Which framework should we use as a webcrawler?*
The developers can **accept or discard** the recommendations.
If they accept a recommendation, the respective solution option and arguments are added to the knowledge graph.

![Decision guidance view with three recommendations generated from DBPedia](../screenshots/decision_guidance_webcrawler.png)

*Decision guidance view with three recommendations generated from DBPedia*

## Recommendation Score

The **recommendation score** represents the predicted relevance of a recommendation, i.e., how likely the developers accept the recommendation.
The recommendation score is used to rank the recommendations.
The recommendation score consists of a value and an explanation. 
Besides, the recommendation score can be composed of various sub-scores for the criteria that were used to calculate the score.

![Explanation of the score for a recommendation generated from DBPedia](../screenshots/decision_guidance_recommendation_score.png)

*Explanation of the score for a recommendation generated from DBPedia*

## Evaluation

Software engineering researchers can judge the performance of the recommendations in the **evaluation view**.
The solution options documented for a selected decision problem are assumed to be the **ground truth/gold standard**.
The following evaluation metrics are calculated:

- **Number of True Positives:** Counts the number of true positives under the top-k results, 
i.e. the number of recommendations from a knowledge source that were already documented in the knowledge graph.
- **Precision@k:** Measures the precision (positive predictive value) within the top-k results, 
i.e. the fraction of relevant recommendations (that match the solution options in the ground truth) among the retrieved recommendations.
- **Recall@k:** Measures the recall (true positive rate/sensitivity) within the top-k results, 
i.e. the fraction of the solution options in the ground truth that are successfully recommended.
- **F-Score:** Measures the harmonic mean of Precision and Recall.
- **Average Precision:** Measures the average precision (AP) within the top-k results. 
Takes the total number of ground truth positives into account, i.e. the number of the solution options already documented.
- **Reciprokal Rank:** Measures the position of the first correct recommendation. 
For example: If the first recommendation is relevant, the reciprocal rank is 1. 
If the first recommendation is irrelevant and the second recommendation is relevant, the reciprocal rank is 0.5.

![Decision guidance evaluation view](../screenshots/decision_guidance_evaluation.png)

*Decision guidance evaluation view*

The evaluation view shows the total amount of recommendations generated from the knowledge source.
The recommendations for the decision problem *Which framework should we use as a webcrawler?* are
*Heritrix, Apache Nutch, Frontera (web crawling), SortSite, PowerMapper, HTTrack, Scrapy, Googlebot*.
Only the top-k recommendations (k=5 in the Figure) are used for the evaluation.

## Nudging Mechanisms

ConDec uses the following [nudging mechanisms](nudging.md) to support the usage of the decision guidance feature:

- **Ambient feedback:** The colored menu item indicate whether action is needed, i.e., 
whether there are recommendations that were not yet accepted or discarded by the developers.
- **Just-in-time prompt:** ConDec shows a [just-in-time prompt](../screenshots/nudging_prompt.png) to the developers when they change the state of a Jira issue.
The just-in-time prompt indicates whether action is needed.

## Activation and Configuration
The decision guidance feature offers various configuration possibilities.

TODO config screenshot

## Design Details
The following class diagram gives an overview of relevant backend classes for this feature.

![Overview class diagram](../diagrams/class_diagram_decision_guidance.png)

*Overview class diagram for the decision guidance feature*

You find the explanation for the class diagramm in the Javadoc in the code:
[Java code for decision guidance](../../src/main/java/de/uhd/ifi/se/decision/management/jira/recommendation/decisionguidance)

The UI code for decision guidance can be found here:

- [Velocity templates for configuration and evaluation](../../src/main/resources/templates/settings/decisionguidance)
- [Velocity templates for usage during development](../../src/main/resources/templates/tabs/recommendation)
- [JavaScript code for decision guidance](../../src/main/resources/js/recommendation)
